This is a template for a new Goal proposal. See older selected Goals for inspiration: https://kde.org/goals/ . Please keep the sections as is for consistency, but remove all the temporary text (like this line) before submitting
Description

//A description of your goal. Some questions to help you:

/What do you want to improve/change/...?
/Why does it need to be done?
/How does it connect to KDE's vision of "A world in which everyone has control over their digital life and enjoys freedom and privacy"?
/How would it affect different parts of KDE?//

    Goal:
    KDE Plasma UI/UX Integrity: responsive, adaptive, and cohesive.

    In order for KDE to increase its userbase, it needs to respond to the plethora of form factors and display scales that vary greatly. It also needs to be able to adapt to different types of user input methods, all while maintaining cohesion across its ecosystem.

    Responsive
    Since there are many devices that people use that come in different form factors that also have different display scales, KDE Plasma should adhere to a responsive UI/UX design policy that handles that variation of form factors. The concept is simple and can be approached in a way similar to web development; especially since the technology behind KDE Plasma, Qt, specificially specializes and stresses the fact that it is cross-platform and scalable.

    Adaptive
    KDE Plasma's UI should also be able to adapt to various input methods. The user-experience (UX) should feel complete while using all the different various types of input methods. Currently, "touch mode" feels extremely unintuitive. KDE Plasma's UI should be treating touch input as touch input instead of tweaking the UI so that the user can use touch input as though they were using a mouse. For example, instead of making the buttons bigger to use them with a finger, add a touch gesture action instead (e.g., drag to object to close).

    Cohesive
    KDE Plasma's UI should feel complete, and it cannot feel complete with separate components behaving and looking differently. A good example would be with Discover and System-settings; they both have similar layouts, however, Discover has a responsive UI while System-settings does not.

//What it will take
    This goal is no small task! The following broad-steps should allow the goal to be achieved:
    1. A UI/UX policy needs to be created and agreed to.
    2. A developer's guide to implementing the new UI/UX policy to applications and elements needs to be created.
    3. Developer's implement the UI/UX policy on KDE's applications, plasma UI components, and input methods.

/What is your plan for making it happen? What do we need to do to make this reality? What kind of support do you need?
/How we know we succeeded

    This goal will take a lot of hard work, and the actual approach to the technical details of the development I am unsure of, but what I do know is the final outcome. I could lead this, but I could not implement it myself. This goal would need the support of the majority of the community in order for it to work. A few different teams would need to be established, for example:
    1. UI/UX policy & guide team
    2. Application developer team
    3. Plasma component developer team
    4. Input method (e.g., touch-mode, etc.) developer team

    In my opinion, completing this goal would lead to a more perfect KDE Plasma user experience which is needed in order to gain a more broad user base.

//I am willing to put work into this

    Donald Menig - OP

//I am interested

    Donald Menig - OP
